So now let's talk about S3 access points.
So let's take an example
of an S3 bucket that has a lot of data.
We have finance data, we have sales data,
and we have different users
or groups that want to access their data.
We could create a very complicated S3 bucket policy
and make it grow over time.
The more users, the more data you have,
the more unmanageable this may become.
So what is the solution?
Well, we can create what's called S3 access points.
So we can, for example,
create a finance access point that is going
to be connected to the finance data.
How is it connected to the finance data?
Well, we're going to define an access point policy
and this policy looks just like an S3 bucket policy
and is going to grant read write access
to the finance prefix.
Then we can define a sales access point.
And, again, this will be connected to the sales data
thanks to an access point policy,
a different one attached to this access point,
which is going to grant read and write access
to the sales prefix.
As you can see, I now have two policy
and if I want to have an analytics access point,
well, we can create it so that it points to finance
and sales, but in read only access.
So we're going to create our own read only policy
on the analytics access point.
So you can see here we have pushed the security management
from the S3 bucket policy into the access points
and each access point will have its own security.
Therefore, with the proper IAM permissions
then our users can access the finance access points
and connect only to the finance part of our bucket.
The users as well for sales can only access the sales
and the analytics group can access finance
and sales at the same time.
So by using access points, we define different ways
to access our S3 bucket.
And the result of that is that we have
a very simple way to manage security.
We have policies attached to each access point
and also we have a very simple bucket policy on Amazon S3.
Therefore, we can really scale access to our S3 buckets.
So to summarize access points, simplify security managements
for S3 buckets, and each access point will have
its own DNS name.
That's how you connect to the access point.
You can choose it to be connected to the internet
as an origin or a VPC for private traffic.
And then you attach again an access point policy
which is very similar to bucket policy.
And this allows you to manage security at scale.
Regarding the VPC origin of S3 access points,
we can define them to be privately accessible.
So that's, for example, an EC2 instance
in a VPC access says without going through the internet
our S3 bucket through the VPC access point
through a VPC origin.
So to do so, to get access to this VPC origin,
we must create what's called a VPC endpoint
to access the access point.
So it's something in our VPC that will allow us to connect
privately into the access point through our VPC origin.
And then the VPC endpoint has a policy,
and this policy must allow access
to the target buckets and the access points.
So the VPC endpoint policy will allow our EC2 instance
to connect to both the VPC, the access points
on Amazon S3 and the S3 buckets.
So in this case, we have VPC endpoint for security.
We also have security for the access point policy
and security at the S3 bucket level.
All right. That's it for access points.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.